Using Google for Advanced Searching

As we have previously discussed, Google has a lot of websites crawled and indexed. Your average Joe uses Google to look up Cat pictures (I'm more of a Dog person myself...). Whilst Google will have many Cat pictures indexed ready to serve to Joe, this is a rather trivial use of the search engine in comparison to what it can be used for.
For example, we can add operators such as that from programming languages to either increase or decrease our search results - or perform actions such as arithmetic!



Say if we wanted to narrow down our search query, we can use quotation marks. Google will interpret everything in between these quotation marks as exact and only return the results of the exact phrase provided...Rather useful to filter through the rubbish that we don't need as we have done so below:



Refining our Queries

We can use terms such as “site” (such as bbc.co.uk) and a query (such as "gchq news") to search the specified site for the keyword we have provided to filter out content that may be harder to find otherwise. For example, using the “site” and "query" of "bbc" and "gchq", we have modified the order of which Google returns the results.

In the screenshot below, searching for “gchq news” returns approximately 1,060,000 results from Google. The website that we want is ranked behind GCHQ's actual website:



But we don't want that...We wanted “bbc.co.uk” first, so let's refine our search using the “site” term. Notice how in the screenshot below, Google returns with much fewer results? Additionally, the page that we didn't want has disappeared, leaving the site that we did actually want! 



Of course, in this case, GCHQ is quite a topic of discussion - so there'll be a load of results regardless.


So What Makes "Google Dorking" so Appealing?

First of all - and the important part - it's legal! It's all indexed, publicly available information. However, what you do with this is where the question of legality comes in to play...

A few common terms we can search and combine include:

Term	Action
filetype:
	Search for a file by its extension (e.g. PDF)
cache:	View Google's Cached version of a specified URL
intitle:	The specified phrase MUST appear in the title of the page

For example, let's say we wanted to use Google to search for all PDFs on bbc.co.uk:

site:bbc.co.uk filetype:pdf

Great, now we've refined our search for Google to query for all publically accessible PDFs on "bbc.co.uk" - You wouldn't have found files like this "Freedom of Information Request Act" file from a wordlist!

Here we used the extension PDF, but can you think of any other file formats of sensitive nature that may be publically accessible? (Often unintentionally!!) Again, what you do with any results that you find is where the legality comes into play - this is why "Google Dorking" is so great/dangerous.

Here is simple directory traversal.

I have blanked out a lot of the below to cover you, me, THM and the owners of the domains:



