

In some situations, specifying just the name of a file will not be enough. You can also specify the owner, the size, the permissions, and the time the file was last accessed/modified as well.


The username of the owner of a file is specified with the -user flag.


The size of a file is specified with the -size flag. When using numerical values, the formats -n, +n, and n can be used, where n is a number. -n matches values lesser than n, +n matches values greater than n, and n matches values exactly n. To specify a size, you also need a suffix. c is the suffix for bytes, k for KiB’s, and M for MiB’s. So, if you want to specify a size less than 30 bytes, the argument -30c should be used.


The -perm flag is used to specify permissions, either in octal form (ex. 644) or in symbolic form (ex. u=r). See here for a short reference. If you specify the permission mode as shown above (ex. 644 or u=r), then find will only return files with those permissions exactly. You can use the – or / prefix to make your search more inclusive. Using the – prefix will return files with at least the permissions you specify; this means that the -444 mode will match files that are readable by everyone, even if someone also has write and/or execute permissions. Using the / prefix will return files that match any of the permissions you have set; this means that the /666 mode will match files that are readable and writeable by at least one of the groups (owner, group, or others).


Lastly, time-related searches will be covered. These are more complex but may prove useful. The flag consists of a word and a prefix. The words are min and time, for minutes and days, respectively. The prefixes are a, m, and c, and are used to specify when a file was last accessed, modified, or had its status changed. As for the numerical values, the same rules of the -size flag apply, except there is no suffix. To put it all together: in order to specify that a file was last accessed more than 30 minutes ago, the option -amin +30 is used. To specify that it was modified less than 7 days ago, the option -mtime -7 is used. (Note: when you want to specify that a file was modified within the last 24 hours, the option -mtime 0 is used.)
