The second phase of the Hacker Methodology is Scanning and Enumeration.

This is where a hacker will start interacting with (scanning and enumerating) the target to attempt to find vulnerabilities related to the target.

This is where more specialized tools start to come in to the arsenal. Tools like nmap, dirb, metasploit, exploit-db, Burp Suite and others are very useful to help us try to find vulnerabilities in a target. (Don't worry about them now, you can get into the nitty-gritty later)

In the scanning and enumeration phase, the attacker is interacting with the target to determine its overall attack surface.

The attack surface determines what the target might be vulnerable to in the Exploitation phase. These vulnerabilities might be a range of things: anything from a webpage not being properly locked down, a website leaking information, SQL Injection, Cross Site Scripting or any number of other vulnerabilities.

To simplify - the enumeration and scanning phase is where we will try to determine WHAT the target might be vulnerable to.

For example, one important tool in our arsenal is a tool called Nmap (I recommmend checking out the nmap room after you finish this room).


    Nmap is a tool which can scan a target and tell us a wide variety of things:
        What ports are open (if you don't know anything about ports I highly recommend watching this: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PpsEaqJV_A0 and https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qsZ8Qcm6_8k)
        The operating system of the target (Windows, Linux, MacOS, etc. including what version of the Operating System)
        What services are running and what version of the service (for example, just saying FTP (File Transfer Protocol) isn't enough - nmap can attempt to fingerprint and determine the exact VERSION of FTP which may enable us to find a specific vulnerability in the target)

Although that may sound like a lot of information (enough to pwn anyone and anything, right?) there are other tools that will also be used in the reconnaissance arsenal.

Here is a quick sampling of other tools that you can learn on TryHackMe:

    dirb (used to find commonly-named directories on a website - like how under https://www.tesla.com there is also https://www.tesla.com/about, https://www.tesla.com/model3, https://www.tesla.com/modely, and most importantly https://www.tesla.com/models WITH LUDICROUS MODE!! ♥) 
    dirbuster (similar to dirb but with a cooler name, and with a user interface)
    enum4linux (tool used specifically for Linux to find vulnerabilities)
    metasploit (this tool is mostly used for exploitation, but it also has some built-in enumeration tools)
    Burp Suite (this tool can be used to scan a website for subdirectories and to intercept network traffic)